INSTALL.md, before:

# Usage instructions for non-NASA users

Install [Ubuntu 16.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/16.04) on a host machine, and
make sure that you can checkout and build code. If you are using a virtual
machine, please use VMware. Virtualbox doesn't support some of our Gazebo
plugins.

    sudo apt-get install build-essential git

*Note: You will need 3 GBs of RAM to compile the software. If you don't have
that much RAM available, please use swap space.*

## Machine setup

### Checkout the project source code

At this point you need to decide where you'd like to put the source code
(`SOURCE_PATH`) on your machine:
```
    export SOURCE_PATH=$HOME/freeflyer
```
First, clone the flight software repository:
```
    git clone https://github.com/nasa/astrobee.git $SOURCE_PATH
```

If you are planning to work on guest science stuff, you will also need the
`astrobee_android` repository. You should checkout the repository in the same
directory you checked out the source code in:
```
    export ANDROID_PATH="${SOURCE_PATH}_android"
```

Clone the android repository:
```
    git clone https://github.com/nasa/astrobee_android.git $ANDROID_PATH
```

### Dependencies

Next, install all required dependencies:
*Note: `root` access is necessary to install the compiled debian packages below*

    pushd $SOURCE_PATH
    cd scripts/setup
    ./add_ros_repository.sh
    cd debians
    ./build_install_debians.sh
    cd ../
    ./install_desktop_16_04_packages.sh
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    popd

## Configuring the build

### Note for the build setup
By default, the configure script uses the following paths:
  - native build path: `$HOME/freeflyer_build/native`
  - native install path: `$HOME/freeflyer_install/native`

If you are satisfied with these paths, you can invoke the `configure.sh` without
the `-p` and `-b` options. For the simplicity of the instructions below,
we assume that `$BUILD_PATH` and `$INSTALL_PATH` contain the location of the
build and install path.

### Native build

The configure script prepares your build directory for compiling the code. Note
that `configure.sh` is simply a wrapper around CMake that provides an easy way
of turning on and off options. To see which options are supported, simply run
`configure.sh -h`.

    pushd $SOURCE_PATH
    ./scripts/configure.sh -l -F -D
    popd

If you want to explicitly specify the build and install directories, use
instead:

    ./scripts/configure.sh -l -F -D -p $INSTALL_PATH -b $BUILD_PATH

*Note: Make sure you use the -F and -D flags. If these flags are not used, the
code will not compile. The -F flag is used to turn off building the Picoflex.
This is only needed for running on the robot and is not needed for the
simulator. The -D is used to turn off building the dds bridge. The bridge is
used to communicate with our ground data system and is also not needed for the
simulator.*

## Building the code

To build, run `make` in the `$BUILD_PATH`. Note that depending on your host
machine, this might take in the order of tens of minutes to complete the first
time round. Future builds will be faster, as only changes to the code are
rebuilt, and not the entire code base.

    pushd $BUILD_PATH
    make -j6
    popd

## Running a simulation

You will need to first setup your environment, so that ROS knows about the new
packages provided by Astrobee flight software:

    pushd $BUILD_PATH
    source devel/setup.bash
    popd

After this command has completed, you should be able to run a simulator from any
directory in your Linux filesystem. So, for example, to start a simulation of a
single Astrobee in the ISS, run the following:

    roslaunch astrobee sim.launch dds:=false rviz:=true

- Note 1: The very first time Gazebo starts, it could take a long time because
  it loads some large models
- Note 2: To run the simulation with the Gazebo rendering, you can add the flag
  `sviz:=true`. This allow to see the ISS module used for the simulation,
  however this is demanding more resources on your computer.

This command tells ROS to look for the `sim.launch` file provided by the
`astrobee` package, and use roslaunch to run it. Internally, ROS maintains a
cache of information about package locations, libraries and executables. If you
find that the above command doesn't work, try rebuilding the cache:

    rospack profile

Commit message:

Patch release of Astrobee Robot Software v1
This release fixes even more documentation issues identified.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Usage instructions for non-NASA users

Install the 64-bit version of [Ubuntu 16.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/16.04)
on a host machine, and make sure that you can checkout and build code.
If you are using a virtual machine, please use VMware. Virtualbox doesn't
support some of our Gazebo plugins.

    sudo apt-get install build-essential git

*Note: You will need 3 GBs of RAM to compile the software. If you don't have
that much RAM available, please use swap space.*

*Note: Please ensure you install the 64-bit version of Ubuntu. We do not
support running Astrobee Robot Software on 32-bit systems.*

## Machine setup

### Checkout the project source code

At this point you need to decide where you'd like to put the source code
(`SOURCE_PATH`) on your machine:
```
    export SOURCE_PATH=$HOME/freeflyer
```
First, clone the flight software repository:
```
    git clone https://github.com/nasa/astrobee.git $SOURCE_PATH
```

If you are planning to work on guest science stuff, you will also need the
`astrobee_android` repository. You should checkout the repository in the same
directory you checked out the source code in:
```
    export ANDROID_PATH="${SOURCE_PATH}_android"
```

Clone the android repository:
```
    git clone https://github.com/nasa/astrobee_android.git $ANDROID_PATH
```

### Dependencies

Next, install all required dependencies:
*Note: `root` access is necessary to install the compiled debian packages below*

    pushd $SOURCE_PATH
    cd scripts/setup
    ./add_ros_repository.sh
    cd debians
    ./build_install_debians.sh
    cd ../
    ./install_desktop_16_04_packages.sh
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    popd

## Configuring the build

### Note for the build setup
By default, the configure script uses the following paths:
  - native build path: `$HOME/freeflyer_build/native`
  - native install path: `$HOME/freeflyer_install/native`

If you are satisfied with these paths, you can invoke the `configure.sh` without
the `-p` and `-b` options. For the simplicity of the instructions below,
we assume that `$BUILD_PATH` and `$INSTALL_PATH` contain the location of the
build and install path.

### Native build

The configure script prepares your build directory for compiling the code. Note
that `configure.sh` is simply a wrapper around CMake that provides an easy way
of turning on and off options. To see which options are supported, simply run
`configure.sh -h`.

    pushd $SOURCE_PATH
    ./scripts/configure.sh -l -F -D
    popd

If you want to explicitly specify the build and install directories, use
instead:

    ./scripts/configure.sh -l -F -D -p $INSTALL_PATH -b $BUILD_PATH

*Note: Make sure you use the -F and -D flags. If these flags are not used, the
code will not compile. The -F flag is used to turn off building the Picoflex.
This is only needed for running on the robot and is not needed for the
simulator. The -D is used to turn off building the dds bridge. The bridge is
used to communicate with our ground data system and is also not needed for the
simulator.*

## Building the code

To build, run `make` in the `$BUILD_PATH`. Note that depending on your host
machine, this might take in the order of tens of minutes to complete the first
time round. Future builds will be faster, as only changes to the code are
rebuilt, and not the entire code base.

    pushd $BUILD_PATH
    make -j6
    popd

## Running a simulation

You will need to first setup your environment, so that ROS knows about the new
packages provided by Astrobee flight software:

    pushd $BUILD_PATH
    source devel/setup.bash
    popd

After this command has completed, you should be able to run a simulator from any
directory in your Linux filesystem. So, for example, to start a simulation of a
single Astrobee in the ISS, run the following:

    roslaunch astrobee sim.launch dds:=false rviz:=true

- Note 1: The very first time Gazebo starts, it could take a long time because
  it loads some large models
- Note 2: To run the simulation with the Gazebo rendering, you can add the flag
  `sviz:=true`. This allow to see the ISS module used for the simulation,
  however this is demanding more resources on your computer.

This command tells ROS to look for the `sim.launch` file provided by the
`astrobee` package, and use roslaunch to run it. Internally, ROS maintains a
cache of information about package locations, libraries and executables. If you
find that the above command doesn't work, try rebuilding the cache:

    rospack profile
