mobility/choreographer/readme.md, before:

\defgroup choreographer Choreographer
\ingroup mobility

The choreographer is the core of the mobility system and provides six critical functions in support of mobility:

1. It provides a single action topic called `/mob/motion`, which supports several types of command -- prep, move, execute, stop and idle.
2. It interacts with the low-level control action to send control goals and monitor the current progress for tolerance errors.
3. It provides an interface for planners to register themselves at runtime, offering a range of different ways to plan a segment.
4. It broadcasts the current flight mode, which is used by peer nodes (fam, ctl, ekf) to reconfigure themselves.
5. It broadcasts the current inertia properties, which are used by peer nodes (fam) to reconfigure themselves.
6. It broadcasts the current set of keep in and keep out zones, which are used by the mapper to check for collisions and build a clutter map.

## Basic operation

The choreographer supports a number of different motion requests -- ```executing``` an existing plan, ```moving``` through a sequence of timestamped poses, ```prepping``` to a given flight mode, ```stopping``` as quickly as possible, and ```idling``` the propulsion system. Each request has different data in the payload, and so it makes sense to support multiple action types:

The choreographer provides the callee with a single action-based entry point for control, called ```ff_msgs::MotionAction```. This "motion action" accepts a command -- PREP, MOVE, EXEC, STOP or IDLE -- and carries it out in the background, sending periodic feedback to the callee. When the task completes a result is returned, along with a response code that captures any errors.

The action supports only one goal, which is fully-preemptible. This means that a new goal always preempts the current goal (the previous goal's callee will be notified of preemption). Consequently, you must be careful not to interact with docking action, or any of its dependencies while active.

## Configurable parameters

The choreographer exposes its configuration through ```common::ConfigServer``` class. Thus, the ```rqt_reconfigure``` client can be used to change settings manually, or the ```common::ConfigClient``` can be used to change the settings programatically.

The following configurable parameters are supported:

| Parameter                        | Description |
|:---------------------------------|:----------- |
| ```planner```                    | Which planner to call when a segment needs to be created for a given sequence of poses. |
| ```enable_immediate```           | Whether a segment should be executed immediately, regardless of the first timestamp value. (move, exec) |
| ```enable_validation```          | Whether a segment should be validated by the mapper prior to execution (move, exec). |
| ```enable_bootstrapping```       | Whether the rsbot should plan a path automatically to move from its current position to the first position of a segment. (exec) |
| ```enable_faceforward```         | Whether the planner should generate a segment where the robot always faces the translation direction. (move) |
| ```enable_collision_checking```  | Whether the choreographer should intervene if the mapper detects an obstacle. (move, exec) |
| ```enable_replanning```          | Whether the choreographer should try and automatically replan around obstacles. (move, exec) |
| ```desired_vel```                | Desired upper bound on linear velocity when planning (move) |
| ```desired_accel```              | Desired upper bound on linear acceleration when planning (move) |
| ```desired_omega```              | Desired upper bound on angular velocity when planning (move) |
| ```desired_alpha```              | Desired upper bound on angular acceleration when planning (move) |
| ```desired_rate```               | Desired sampling rate of segment when planning (move) |

Additional parameters are supported, but are not reconfigurable.

## Under the hood

Internally, the choreographer is encoded as a finite state machine depicted below and implemented using the ff_util/FSM class. This class essentially captures a map of (state, event) -> lambda function relationships. The state of the system is moved forward by setting the initial state and then pushing a sequence of events to the FSM.

\dotfile choreographer_fsm "Choreographer finite state machine"

Commit message:

add code to run replanning with obstacle avoidance

mobility/choreographer/readme.md, after:

\defgroup choreographer Choreographer
\ingroup mobility

The choreographer is the core of the mobility system and provides six critical functions in support of mobility:

1. It provides a single action topic called `/mob/motion`, which supports several types of command -- prep, move, execute, stop and idle.
2. It interacts with the low-level control action to send control goals and monitor the current progress for tolerance errors.
3. It provides an interface for planners to register themselves at runtime, offering a range of different ways to plan a segment.
4. It broadcasts the current flight mode, which is used by peer nodes (fam, ctl, ekf) to reconfigure themselves.
5. It broadcasts the current inertia properties, which are used by peer nodes (fam) to reconfigure themselves.
6. It broadcasts the current set of keep in and keep out zones, which are used by the mapper to check for collisions and build a clutter map.

## Basic operation

The choreographer supports a number of different motion requests -- ```executing``` an existing plan, ```moving``` through a sequence of timestamped poses, ```prepping``` to a given flight mode, ```stopping``` as quickly as possible, and ```idling``` the propulsion system. Each request has different data in the payload, and so it makes sense to support multiple action types:

The choreographer provides the callee with a single action-based entry point for control, called ```ff_msgs::MotionAction```. This "motion action" accepts a command -- PREP, MOVE, EXEC, STOP or IDLE -- and carries it out in the background, sending periodic feedback to the callee. When the task completes a result is returned, along with a response code that captures any errors.

The action supports only one goal, which is fully-preemptible. This means that a new goal always preempts the current goal (the previous goal's callee will be notified of preemption). Consequently, you must be careful not to interact with docking action, or any of its dependencies while active.

## Configurable parameters

The choreographer exposes its configuration through ```common::ConfigServer``` class. Thus, the ```rqt_reconfigure``` client can be used to change settings manually, or the ```common::ConfigClient``` can be used to change the settings programatically.

The following configurable parameters are supported:

| Parameter                        | Description |
|:---------------------------------|:----------- |
| ```planner```                    | Which planner to call when a segment needs to be created for a given sequence of poses. |
| ```enable_immediate```           | Whether a segment should be executed immediately, regardless of the first timestamp value. (move, exec) |
| ```enable_validation```          | Whether a segment should be validated by the mapper prior to execution (move, exec). |
| ```enable_bootstrapping```       | Whether the rsbot should plan a path automatically to move from its current position to the first position of a segment. (exec) |
| ```enable_faceforward```         | Whether the planner should generate a segment where the robot always faces the translation direction. (move) |
| ```enable_collision_checking```  | Whether the choreographer should intervene if the mapper detects an obstacle. (move, exec) |
| ```enable_replanning```          | Whether the choreographer should try and automatically replan around obstacles. (move, exec) |
| ```desired_vel```                | Desired upper bound on linear velocity when planning (move) |
| ```desired_accel```              | Desired upper bound on linear acceleration when planning (move) |
| ```desired_omega```              | Desired upper bound on angular velocity when planning (move) |
| ```desired_alpha```              | Desired upper bound on angular acceleration when planning (move) |
| ```desired_rate```               | Desired sampling rate of segment when planning (move) |

Additional parameters are supported, but are not reconfigurable.

A replanning approach is implemented to support obstacle avoidance using the qp-planner. To utilize this functionality set the following parameters: ```planner``` to "qp", ```enable_faceforward``` and ```enable_collision_checking``` to true.

## Under the hood

Internally, the choreographer is encoded as a finite state machine depicted below and implemented using the ff_util/FSM class. This class essentially captures a map of (state, event) -> lambda function relationships. The state of the system is moved forward by setting the initial state and then pushing a sequence of events to the FSM.

\dotfile choreographer_fsm "Choreographer finite state machine"
