\page nodes Nodes 

# Package Overview
The nodes package provides classes for adding nodes to a graph for optimization. Nodes are equivalent to state parameters that should always be added/removed/updated at the same time. For example, when performing visual-intertial odometry, a single node may contain pose, velocity and IMU bias values. For a simple localization graph, a single node may contain just a pose. For timestamped nodes containing a single type (such as just a pose), use the TimestampedNodes class. For timestamped nodes containing multiple types (such as the pose, velocity bias node), use the TimestampedCombinedNodes class and override the AddNode and GetNode methods. 

## Values 
Wrapper around GTSAM values class that enables adding and removing values given their key.

## TimestampedNodes
Class that enables adding and removing simple nodes containing a single type given their timestamp.

## TimestampedCombinedNodes
Class that enables adding and removing combined nodes containing multiple types given their timestamp. The AddNode and GetNode functions must be overridden, where the AddNode method should yield a new key vector containing a key for each type in the node, and the GetNode method should generate a combined type given a key vector. Note the ordering of the keys in the key vector generated by AddNode and provided by GetNode must match. See CombinedNavStateNodes for an example.  

## CombinedNavStateNodes
TimestampedCombinedNodes for a combined nav state that contains a pose, velocity, and IMU bias.
